= The linux filesystem =

== Intorduction ==
The Linux FS comes from UNIX - a system for mainframe computers, which are HUGE. The functionality is implemented as such even on PCs and laptops.
This entry is on the internal filesystem, i.e. the way the OS organizes files, *NOT the disk formatting*.

== What does the FS contain? ==
*ONLY FILES!* 
=== Obfuscation ===
In the FS everything is a file - directories, devices etc. 
This is called _obfuscation_.
Directories(=folders) are also files - they contain addresses to other files.

The name "folder" comes from CS101 as a metaphor(files in a cabinet),
and when GUIs came along directories got folder icons.

== Important dirs ==
See [[Important dirs table]] 

== Managing the filesystem ==
See [[FS management]]

== Mounting ==
Assigning a storage device to a place in the filesystem.
== Case ==
The Linux FS is Case-sensitive, unlike Windows. Watch out!
== hidden files ==
file/dirnames beggining with "." are hidden. Used e.g. for configs.
.bash_history - allows history access
== samba ==
a program to connect with Win machines
== touch command ==
[[FS management]]
== flag files ==
wtf????
== permissions ==
[[Permissions]]


== Reading TODO ==
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=roES8iAaJEM
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BNL3qBN9pP0
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HbgzrKJvDRw

== Sources ==
1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HIXzJ3Rz9po
2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=roES8iAaJEM
3. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BNL3qBN9pP0
4. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HbgzrKJvDRw
